PD-241 Update First Time Login Article (#1800)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/GettingStarted/Configure/FirstTimeLogin.md

On networks that support Multicast Domain Name Services (mDNS), the system can use a host name and domain to access the TrueNAS web interface.
By default, TrueNAS uses the host name and domain **truenas.local**. 
To change the host name and domain in the web interface, go to **Network** and click **Settings** on the **Global Configuration** card.

To access the web interface using an IP address, either use the IP address displayed at the top of the Console Setup Menu after installing SCALE or use the IP address you assigned in the [Consoled Setup Menu]({{< relref "/SCALE/GettingStarted/install/ConsoleSetupMenuSCALE.md" >}}) article.

{{< enterprise >}}
SCALE Enterprise (HA) systems can use the DHCP-assigned IP address for the primary controller to access the UI or, if a static IP is configured using the [Console setup menu]({{< relref "ConsoleSetupMenuSCALE.md" >}}), use that IP address to access to the SCALE UI. 
{{< /enterprise >}}

## Logging Into the SCALE UI

Using a computer with access to the same network as the TrueNAS system, enter the host name and domain or IP address in a web browser to connect to the SCALE web interface.

{{< hint info >}}

> The browser you use can impact quality of your user experience. We generally recommend using Firefox, Edge, or Chrome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The browser you use can impact the quality of your user experience. We generally recommend using Firefox, Edge, or Chrome.
```

{{< /hint >}}

{{< include file="/_includes/RootLoginWarnSCALE.md" type="page" >}}

With the implementation of rootless login, root is no longer the default administrator username, rather you use the new admin user created during the installation process. 

> We recommend creating the admin user during the installation process and use this to log into SCALE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend creating the admin user during the installation process and using it to log into SCALE.
```

Based on the authentication method selected in step 4 of the SCALE [TrueNAS installer Console Setup]({{< relref "InstallingScale.md" >}}) process, you could see one of three sign-in splash screen options for the web UI.

> * Selecting **1. Administrative user (admin)** opens the SCALE sign-in screen to log in with admin username and password created during installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Selecting **1. Administrative user (admin)** opens the SCALE sign-in screen to log in with the admin username and password created during installation.
```

To modify user credentials, go to **Credentials > Local Users**, click anywhere on the user row, then click **Edit**. For more information see [Managing Users]({{< relref "ManageLocalUsersScale.md" >}}).

### Logging In as Root
{{< include file="/_includes/RootLoginDeprecatedSCALE.md" type="page" >}}
If installed SCALE and created the root user rather than setting up an admin user during the installation process, log into the UI as the root user with the root password. 

To create an admin user go to **Credentials > Local Users**, and click **Add** to open the **Add User** screen. 
Follow the directions in [Managing Users]({{< relref "ManageLocalUsersScale.md" >}}) to create an admin user with all the settings it requires.

### Creating an Administrator Account at First Log in
Selecting the option to create the root or administration user when you first log into SCALE presents a sign-in splash screen with two radio buttons. Select either the admin or root user option, then enter the password to use with that user. After selecting the option another sign-in splash screen displays where you enter the password for the administration user option you selected.

> After creating the login account, go to **Credentials > Local Users** screen. [Create the admin account]({{< relref "ManageLocalUsersSCALE.md" >}}) immediately after you enter the UI. Create or edit the [admin user account settings]({{< relref "ManageLocalUsersSCALE.md" >}}), enable the password and click **Save**. After setting up the admin user, then edit the root user to disable the password and to resume rootless login security hardening.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the login account, go to **Credentials > Local Users** screen. [Create the admin account]({{< relref "ManageLocalUsersSCALE.md" >}}) immediately after you enter the UI. Create or edit the [admin user account settings]({{< relref "ManageLocalUsersSCALE.md" >}}), enable the password, and click **Save**. After setting up the admin user, then edit the root user to disable the password and resume rootless login security hardening.
```

> {{< expand "What happens if I disable both admin and root passwords at the same time?" "V">}}
> If you disabled the root user password and did not create the admin user and enable that password, or you disable both admin and root user passwords and your session times out before you enable one of the passwords, SCALE dispalys a sign-in screen that allows you create a temporary password for one-time access. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< expand "What happens if I disable both admin and root passwords at the same time?" "V">}}
If you disabled the root user password and did not create the admin user and enable that password, or you disable both admin and root user passwords and your session times out before you enable one of the passwords, SCALE displays a sign-in screen that allows you create a temporary password for one-time access. 
```

![CreateAdminAccountAtFirstTimeLogin](/images/SCALE/22.12/CreateAdminAccountAtFirstTimeLogin.png "Set New Root Account Password Sign In Screen") change image

### Troubleshooting Accessing the Web UI

{{< hint warning >}}
This option does not configure the admin or root user account. 
The password entered is a one-time user access password. 
You must go to the **Credentials > Local Users** screen and [create the admin account]({{< relref "ManageLocalUsersSCALE.md" >}}) immediately after you enter the UI.
{{< /hint >}}
{{< /expand >}}

> {{< expand "UI is not accessible gy IP address" "V" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< expand "UI is not accessible by IP address" "V" >}}
```

{{< /expand >}}
{{< expand "UI displays but seems unresponsive" "v" >}}
If the web interface displays but seems unresponsive or incomplete:

* Make sure the browser allows cookies, Javascript, and custom fonts from the TrueNAS system.
* Try a different browser. We recommend Firefox.

If the UI becomes unresponsive after an upgrade or other system operation, clear the site data and refresh the browser (<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>F5</kbd>).
{{< /expand >}}

If you cannot remember the administrator password to log in to the web interface, connect a keyboard and mouse to the TrueNAS system and open the [console setup menu]({{< relref "ConsoleSetupMenuScale.md#changing-the-root-password" >}}) to reset the root account password.

## Introducing the Main SCALE Dashboard

{{< expand "Dashboard Video Tutorial" >}}

{{< embed-video name="scaledashboardtour" >}}

{{< /expand >}}
After logging in for the first time, you see the main system **Dashboard** screen. 
The **Dashboard** displays basic information about the installed version, systems component usage, and network traffic. 
{{< enterprise >}}

> SCALE Enterprise users with an iXsystems-provided TrueNAS server, displays an image of the system in the **System Information** widget. Click on the system image to open the **System Settings > [View Enclosure]({{< relref "EnclosureScreensSCALE.md" >}})** screen. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SCALE Enterprise users with an iXsystems-provided TrueNAS server, also see an image of the system in the **System Information** widget. Click on the system image to open the **System Settings > [View Enclosure]({{< relref "EnclosureScreensSCALE.md" >}})** screen. 
```

![DashboardMainScreenSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/DashboardMainScreenSCALE.png "TrueNAS SCALE Dashboard")

{{< /enterprise >}}
The **Dashboard** for non-Enterprise systems displays the TrueNAS logo on the **System Information** widget. 

You can reorder dashboard widgets by clicking **Reorder** and then dragging them into your preferred order. You can also choose which widgets appear on the dashboard by clicking **Configure**.

![DashboardConfigureScreenSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/DashboardConfigureScreenSCALE.png "Dashboard Configure Panel")

## Introducing SCALE Navigation Options

The top row (toolbar) has links to outside resources and buttons to control the system.
The left-hand panel lists the main feature and functional areas and lets users navigate to the various TrueNAS Configuration screens.

### Top Toolbar

The icon buttons in the top toolbar menu link to the iXsystems site, display the status of TrueCommand and directory servers, and show system processes, and configuration menus. You can also collapse and expand the main function menu on the left side of the screen. 

![TopToolbar](/images/SCALE/22.12/TopToolbar.png "TrueNAS SCALE Top Toolbar Icons")

> The SCALE top navigation top toolbar provides to access functional areas of the UI that you might want to directly access while on other screen in the UI. 
> Icon buttons provide quick access to dropdown lists of options, dropdown panels with information on system alerts or tasks, and can include access to other informational or configuration screens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SCALE top navigation top toolbar provides access to functional areas of the UI that you might want to directly access while on other screens in the UI. 
Icon buttons provide quick access to dropdown lists of options, dropdown panels with information on system alerts or tasks, and can include access to other information or configuration screens.
```

{{< /expand >}}
{{< expand "Alerts" "v" >}}

> The **Alerts** <span class="material-icons">notifications</span> icon displays a list of current alerts for your TrueNAS system and provides access alert related settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Alerts** <span class="material-icons">notifications</span> icon displays a list of current alerts for your TrueNAS system and provides access to alert-related settings. 
```

> Users can dismiss individual alerts or select the option to dismiss all at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can dismiss individual alerts or select the option to dismiss all alerts at once.
```
